to attain the performance goals set for
laferrari our engineers drew on the
scuderia is f1 experience in the choice
of materials design and engineering full
use was made of the racing departments
test facilities and production processes
GT and f1 engineers worked together
under the guidance of Rory Byrne who
oversaw no fewer than 11 world
championship winning cars the working
group designed a chassis which would
provide maximum rigidity and minimum
weight despite also housing the hybrid
system just like in Formula One prepreg
composites of aeronautical derivation
were employed in the chassis for
different types are used because each
part of the body in black is engineered
to serve its function within the overall
structure most of the tub is made of
t800 both fabric and unidirectional tape
which is strategically laid up to
reinforce critical areas ensuring that
energy can be dispersed along
predetermined lines the hand laying up
process in the f1 plant ensures the
right material is in the right place to
guarantee the functional requirements of
each individual area of the chassis
t1000 unidirectional tape and fabric is
used in some critical areas such as the
doors and the sills
as its high energy absorption
characteristics pass the strictest
side-impact legislation norms structural
elements of the body are made using m4
6j unidirectional tape and fabric which
is extremely rigid but lightweight for
the underbody carbon fiber is combined
with another specialist composite
material Kevlar which is used to protect
the carbon structure from road debris
damage the same materials and processes
employed by the Scuderia Ferrari are
used throughout during the engineering
phase a number of functions were
integrated within the chassis design to
reduce weight an important innovation is
the seat structure which is completely
integrated into the chassis reducing
weight and ensuring a more compact
architecture the carbon fiber is cured
in the same autoclave used for f1 chasse
ease in two phases between 130 and 150
degrees Celsius using vacuum bags to
remove any voids in the laminate the
same multi-material approach was adopted
for the entire body in black in order to
reduce the number of components to the
benefit of lower weight an example of
this approach is the one piece rear
section which is a single piece
constructed using a combination of n 46
J and t800 carbon fibers to obtain a
very lightweight yet rigid structure
this technology enabled us to achieve a
significant improvement in performance
characteristics over the chassis of the
Enzo Ferrari
you